What is the difference between IList, IEnumerable and IQueryable?

IEnumerable: Can iterate the collection of objects which deals with in-process memory.
IQueryable: Can iterate a collection of objects and useful when dealing with queries from database like SQL server.
IList: Can perform any operation like Add, Remove or Get item at specific index in the collection.

What is the difference between IList, IEnumerable?

Both IList and IEnumerable can query data from in-memory collections like List and Array.
IEnumerable inherits from IList.


IEnumerable can find out the number of elements after iterating the collection. 
IEnumerable supports deferred execution and further filtering.
However, it doesnt support Add, Remove or Get like IList.

IList is used to access an element in a specific index in a list, 
it can find out the number of elements in the list without iterating the collection.
However, it doesn't support deferred execution and further filtering.

IList<T> is a generic collection which resides in System.Collections.Generic namespace
and allows us to add a new item to the list and remove items or get items from a specific index position.




What is the difference between IEnumerable and IQueryable?

Both IEnumerable and IQueryableb are interfaces to .Net Collections.
IQueryable inerits from IEnumerable, IQueryable can do what IEnumerable can do but not necessary the other way around.

The biggest difference between IQueryable and Ienumerable is where the filter logic gets executed.

IEnumerable is fetching all the records from the SQL server database table
and then the filter is being applied on the client side.

While in IQueryable, the filter gets applied on the SQL Server 
and only the necessary data is sent to the client side.

In other words, when working with in memory data collection, which means hat collection has no connection with SQL server,
then it is better to use IEnumerable.

But if we are working with collections which are connected to database,
then IQueryable is the better choice as it will reduce network traffic by utilizing SQL.

 IQueryable exists in System.Linq Namespace while IEnumerable exists in System.Collections Namespace.

